---
layout: post
title: No sound
weight: 98
---

There is a lot to unpack in the 57 minute 44 second runtime of Donald Glover's album [**03.15.20**](https://smarturl.it/3152020DGP).

In this post I unpack my interpretation of lyrics from the second verse of **42.26**.

## Level 1

For all intents and purposes, **42.26** is identical to **Feels Like Summer**, which was released in _2018_.

If you have not listened to the song, or you need a refresher, [here is a link to the music video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1B9Fk_SgI0).

## Level 2

The film **Guava Island** was released in _2019_. **Feels Like Summer** is part of its soundtrack.

<br>
<u>Spoiler warning! Turn back now if you do not want <b>Guava Island</b> spoiled.</u>
<br><br>

The film is centered around conflict between Deni (a musician) and Red Cargo (the establishment).

Fast forward to the climax of the film. After Deni's organization of workers through song, he is assassinated.

## Level 3

Throughout the film there is a caged bird. This bird is analogous to Deni. The bird is found dead at the end of the film.

## Level 4

Back to the song in question. Here are the lyrics to unpack:

> Birds were made for singing.<br>
> Waking up to no sound.<br>
> No sound.

## Level 5

Donald is referencing the bird in **Guava Island**.

## Level 6

Right after Donald sings these lyrics, the verse ends in silence. [No sound](https://0x213F.com/No-sound).

## Level 7

Donald is referencing _the future_ (from the perspective of **Feels Like Summer**).

Donald is referencing _the past_ (from the perspective of **42.26**).

## Level 8

In my understanding, I have developed a consistent theme throughout Donald's art:

> If you threaten the establishment, your voice will be suppressed by the establishment.<br><br>
> If the suppression effort fails, you might be killed.

## Level 9

From various justifications, you may reach the conclusion that the establishment suppressed both **Guava Island** and **03.15.20** from receiving the recognition they deserve.

## Level 10

In this regard, Donald's art is a self-fulfilling prophecy.

## Level 11

> I know you know the pain.<br>
> I'm hoping this world would change.<br>
> But it just stays the same.

---
